---
layout: post
title: Diode Laser Sources for Medical and Aesthetic Application
tag: 
  - semiconductor
  - illuminating
comments: true
date: 2018-05-21
---

Different from illuminating industry, semiconductor diodes have been limited to professional markets at the market of life science<!-- more -->. It is appealing and potential to facilitate the huge success to customer market like other instances originated from the semiconductor industry.

## Selective photothermolysis
By choosing a specific wavelength of light, the tissue can interact with the visible light at the cellular scale. Selectivity is the benefit to utilize laser diode and one can achieve the desired effect easily. This is a kind of photothermolysis. Moreover, chromophores targets in displacement or conformational change of the molecule when hit by the light. Without any change to the neighboring tissue, chromophores is able to damage or alter the targeted molecule in a tiny scale. To differ from the various tissue and protein in our body or skin, the spectrum corresponding is the main reference to adjust the laser energy, wavelength and other degrees of freedom.

## Power consuming and accuracy improvement
As an economic kind light source, semiconductor is more efficient than the rest alternatives, like the flash lamp. Therefore, with a high power efficiency, the semiconductor light generates less heat, which is essential to integrate an impact system, since there is not enough space for an extra cooling system. Another advantage of laser source is the monochromatic property. Compare with the common source, the ability of laser source to focus on a spot improves the accuracy significantly, especially for the application like tissue cutting and fiber delivery.

## Compact configuration
A key obstructing laser application to customer market is the huge size. In some successful commercial examples, people prefer to choose a tiny and convenient component. The solid-state laser can compensate this drawback. Furthermore, compared with some other conventional aesthetic products, the diode-supplied ones are more quiet and safe to use, due to lower power energy and non-dynamical units.

> Summarized from MEDICAL AND AESTHETIC LASERS: Semiconductor diode laser advances enable medical applications
