---
layout: post
title: 'Principle of photonic crystals'
date: 2018-06-10 
tags:
  - yukohikari
  - photonic crystal
comment: true
---

## Boltzman equation with a periodicity condition



From the Maxwell equations, the propagation of <!-- more -->elecmegnetic waves (EMW) at frequency $\omega$ in the media should satisfy the Boltzman equation, like


$$ (\nabla^2 - \frac{n^2}{c_0^2} \frac{\partial^2}{\partial t^2}) f(\mathbf{r})
= (\nabla^2 + \frac{\omega^2}{v^2}) f(\mathbf{r}) = 0 $$

where $c$ is the light speed in the media. Here, $f(\mathbf{r})$ can be any component of the EMW, including $E_x, E_y, E_z$ and $H_x, H_y, H_z$.

If there is some periodical structure in the medium and the lattice constants are $\mathbf{a_1}, \mathbf{a_2}, \mathbf{a_3}$, i.e, the refractive index should satisfy such a periodicity condition

$$n(\mathbf{R}+\mathbf{r})=n(\mathbf{r})$$

where $\mathbf{R}=l_1\mathbf{a_1}+l_2\mathbf{a_1}+l_3\mathbf{a_3}$ means an arbitary periodical displacement.

Similarly, we can define the reciprocal lattice vector

$$
\mathbf{b_1} = \frac{2\pi}{V}(\mathbf{a_2} \times \mathbf{a_3}),
\mathbf{b_2} = \frac{2\pi}{V}(\mathbf{a_3} \times \mathbf{a_1}),
\mathbf{b_3} = \frac{2\pi}{V}(\mathbf{a_1} \times \mathbf{a_2})
$$

where $V=\mathbf{a_1} \cdot (\mathbf{a_2} \times \mathbf{a_1})$ is the volume of the unit cell.

## Analogue of the bandgap theory

Similar to the band theory in solid physics, the wave function follows the same Bloch's theorem[^bt]

$$f_\mathbf{k}(\mathbf{r})=e^{i\mathbf{k}\mathbf{r}} u_\mathbf{k}({\mathbf{r}})$$

That is to say, the wave function in the periodical structure is such an *amplitude modulated plane wave*, where $u_{(\mathbf{k})}(\mathbf{r})$ is the amplitude modulation function and $e^{i\mathbf{k}\mathbf{r}}$ represents the plane wave fucntion.

Following the Born-von Karman boundary conditions[^bk], a similar conclusion can be used in the PhC.

$$
\mathbf{k_1} = \frac{m_1}{N_1} \mathbf{b_1},
\mathbf{k_2} = \frac{m_2}{N_2} \mathbf{b_2},
\mathbf{k_3} = \frac{m_3}{N_3} \mathbf{b_3} 
$$

where, $N_i$ is the number of unit cells and $m_i$ is an intergral index.

In conclusion, the wave function consists of all the discrete wave vectors. If $N_i$ is large enough, we can treat the plane wave is *quasi-continuous*, like the lattice wave in the solids.

## Kronig–Penney 1D model

In quantum mechnanics, Kronig–Penney model[^kp] is a simple system consisting of an infinite periodic array of rectangular potential barriers. The same, we can set the distribution of refactive index as a rectangular function which repeats at the period $a$ and duty cycle is $b/a$.

$$
n(x) = \begin{cases}
n_1, ma < x < ma+b \\
n_2, ma+b < x < (m+1)a
\end{cases}
$$

$$
= \sum ^{\infty} _{m=-\infty} [n_2 + (n_1-n_2)u(\frac{x}{a} - m) - (n_1-n_2) + u(\frac{x}{a} - m - \frac{b}{a}) ]
$$


For a simple air-hole PhC, $n_1=n$ and $n_2=0$.

Here we expand the refractive funtion into Fourier series by wave vector $K$, 

$$
n(x)=\sum_{K} N(K) e^{iKx}
$$

where $N(K)=\frac{1}{a} \int^{a}_{0} n(x) e^{-iKx} dx = -\frac{1}{iKa}[(n_1-n_2)e^{-iKb}+n_2e^{-iKa}]$.

For the wave function, the amplitude modulated function $u_k(x)$ can also be written as a Fourier series $U_k(K)$. 

Hence,
$$f_k(K) = \sum_{K} U_k(K) e^{i(k+K)x}$$


Putting into the Boltzman equation, we have

$$
(\nabla^2 + \frac{N^2(K)\omega^2}{c_0^2}) f_k(K) \\
= [-(k+K)^2 + \frac{N^2(K)\omega^2}{c_0^2}] \sum_{K} U_k(K) e^{i(k+K)x} = 0
$$

In result, we can get the dispersion relation

$$
k = | \frac{\omega}{c_0} N(K) |
= \frac{\omega}{v} | \frac{1}{Ka} (\delta \sin Kb + \sin Ka)+i(\delta \cos Kb + \cos Ka) |
$$

where $\delta=\frac{n_1-n_2}{n_2}$ is the refractive index difference.

Here we can see, not all the wave vectors are real. For a given frequency, $k$ is allowed or forbidden. 

[^kp]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Particle_in_a_one-dimensional_lattice
[^bt]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bloch_wave
[^bk]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Born%E2%80%93von_Karman_boundary_condition